docs: PHP web quickstart (#2698)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: astro/src/content/quickstarts/quickstart-php-web.mdx

---
title: PHP
description: Quickstart integration of PHP web application with FusionAuth
navcategory: getting-started
prerequisites: Docker version 20
section: web
cta: EmailListCTA
technology: PHP
language: PHP
icon: /img/icons/php.svg
faIcon: fa-php
url: https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-php-web
codeRoot: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-php-web/main
---

import Aside from '/src/components/Aside.astro';
import LoginAfter from '../../diagrams/quickstarts/login-after.astro';
import LoginBefore from '../../diagrams/quickstarts/login-before.astro';

> import {RemoteCode} from '@fusionauth/astro-components';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import {RemoteCode, RemoteValue} from '@fusionauth/astro-components';
```

Using [`<RemoteValue>`](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-astro-components#remotevalue) to avoid hard-coding some values

> In this quickstart, you will build an application with {frontmatter.technology} and integrate it with FusionAuth. The application is for [ChangeBank](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pkH-kD73QUM), a global leader in converting dollars to coins. The app will have areas reserved for logged in users and public-facing sections.

Reviewer 2: I added the note

## General Architecture

This sample application doesn't have login functionality without FusionAuth, but a more typical integration will replace an existing login system with FusionAuth.

In that case, the system might look like this before FusionAuth is introduced.

<LoginBefore alt={"Request flow during login before FusionAuth"}/>

The login flow will look like this after FusionAuth is introduced.

<LoginAfter alt={"Request flow during login after FusionAuth"}/>

In general, you would introduce FusionAuth to normalize and consolidate user data to make it consistent and up to date, and offload your login security and functionality to FusionAuth.

## Getting Started

Start with getting FusionAuth up and running and creating a new {frontmatter.technology} application.

### Clone The Code

First, grab the code from the repository and change to that directory.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-php-web.git
cd fusionauth-quickstart-php-web
mkdir your-application
```

All shell commands in this guide can be entered in a terminal in this directory. On Windows, you need to replace forward slashes with backslashes in paths.

> All the files you'll create in this guide already exist in the `complete-application` subdirectory, if you prefer to copy them to `your-application`.

Reviewer 2: I have restructured the application as suggested

### Run FusionAuth Via Docker

You'll find a Docker Compose file `docker-compose.yml` and an environment variables configuration file `.env` in the root directory of the repository.

Assuming you have Docker installed, you can start FusionAuth on your machine with the following.

```shell
docker compose up
```

This will start four containers, one each for FusionAuth, Postgres, OpenSearch, and PHP.

Here you are using a bootstrapping feature of FusionAuth called [Kickstart](/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/kickstart). When FusionAuth starts for the first time, it will look at the `kickstart/kickstart.json` file and configure FusionAuth to your specified state.

<Aside type="note">
  If you ever want to reset the FusionAuth system, delete the volumes created by `docker-compose` by executing `docker
  compose down -v`, then rerun `docker compose up -d`.
</Aside>

FusionAuth will be configured with these settings:

> * Your client Id is `e9fdb985-9173-4e01-9d73-ac2d60d1dc8e`.
> * Your client secret is `super-secret-secret-that-should-be-regenerated-for-production`.
> * Your example username is `richard@example.com` and the password is `password`.
> * Your admin username is `admin@example.com` and the password is `password`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your client Id is <code><RemoteValue url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/kickstart/kickstart.json"} selector="$.variables.applicationId" /></code>.
* Your client secret is <code><RemoteValue url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/kickstart/kickstart.json"} selector="$.requests.[?(@.url === '/api/application/#{applicationId}')].body.application.oauthConfiguration.clientSecret" /></code>.
* Your example username is <code><RemoteValue url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/kickstart/kickstart.json"} selector="$.variables.userEmail" /></code> and the password is <code><RemoteValue url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/kickstart/kickstart.json"} selector="$.variables.userPassword" /></code>.
* Your admin username is <code><RemoteValue url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/kickstart/kickstart.json"} selector="$.variables.adminEmail" /></code> and the password is <code><RemoteValue url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/kickstart/kickstart.json"} selector="$.variables.adminPassword" /></code>.
```

Using [`<RemoteValue>`](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-astro-components#remotevalue) to avoid hard-coding these values

import {RemoteCode, RemoteValue} from '@fusionauth/astro-components';

In this quickstart, you will build an application with {frontmatter.technology} and integrate it with FusionAuth. The application is for [ChangeBank](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pkH-kD73QUM), a global leader in converting dollars to coins. The app will have areas reserved for logged in users and public-facing sections.

<Aside type="note">
  When developing PHP web applications, it's advisable to consider using a framework. Frameworks provide a structured environment, streamlining development and enhancing code organization. With built-in security features, community support, and time-saving tools, frameworks offer a robust foundation for efficient and maintainable projects.
</Aside>

Find the Docker Compose file and source code for the complete application at <a href={frontmatter.url}>{frontmatter.url}</a>.

## Prerequisites

For this quickstart, you'll need:

* [PHP](https://www.php.net/downloads.php) 8+
* [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/)
* [Docker](https://www.docker.com) version 20 or later, which is the quickest way to start FusionAuth. (There are [other ways](/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/).)

> You will run PHP 8, Composer, and Apache in Docker. Using Docker makes this tutorial suitable for Windows, Linux, and macOS.

Reviewer 3: Please don't use docker for PHP. As mentioned in another quickstart (the laravel web one, I believe) we assume the developer has things installed locally. Please rewrite to not use docker for the PHP application.

Reviewer 3: @vcampitelli but you use docker for everything :) .

Can you explain why you think this is the best approach and worth breaking consistency across all the other quickstarts (excluding the wordpress and drupal quickstarts which have a lot more going on than this one)?

Reviewer: I'd say that PHP is not included in most Linux distros (at least not up-to-date versions), but you had me on "worth breaking consistency across all the other quickstarts". I have no arguments strong enough against that. No-Docker approach then!

Reviewer 3: Thanks @vcampitelli .

@rideam can you please rework to use a locally installed PHP binary? Feel free to add that as a prerequisite and composer (or maybe you already have that?).

Reviewer 2: @mooreds  I opened a PR here https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-quickstart-php-web/pull/1 to change the app to not use the Docker image and use locally installed PHP

Reviewer 3: Resolving since I merged that.

In the `docker-compose.yml` configuration, on the `php` service change the volume parameter `./complete-application:/var/www/html` to reference your application with `./your-application:/var/www/html`.

The `./your-application:/var/www/html` volume parameter shares your application directory with the container so both your physical machine and Docker can read and write the same files.

<Aside type="note">
  Note that the `phpimage.Dockerfile` in the root directory of the project configures Apache to serve files from the `public` directory over the web, to hide `vendor` and configuration files. If you're not using Docker, you will need to do this yourself.

  ```
  RUN sed -i 's|/var/www/html|/var/www/html/public|g' /etc/apache2/sites-available/000-default.conf
  RUN sed -i 's|/var/www/html|/var/www/html/public|g' /etc/apache2/apache2.conf
  ```
</Aside>

Before you start coding, you need to install the PHP module for your application to communicate with FusionAuth. Run the following command.

```bash
docker run --rm -v ./your-application:/app composer require vlucas/phpdotenv jerryhopper/oauth2-fusionauth
```

## Authentication

> Authentication in {frontmatter.technology} is managed by [Jerry Hopper's FusionAuth Provider](https://github.com/jerryhopper/oauth2-fusionauth) for [The League's OAuth library](https://github.com/thephpleague/oauth2-client).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Authentication in {frontmatter.technology} is managed by [FusionAuth community member Jerry Hopper's FusionAuth Provider](https://github.com/jerryhopper/oauth2-fusionauth) for [The League's OAuth library](https://github.com/thephpleague/oauth2-client).
```

<Aside type="note">
  If you're not using Docker, you can change the server URL to match the browser URL, as all network communication will
  be on your physical machine.
</Aside>

Authentication is handled by two files: `login.php` and `logout.php`.

The login file is based almost exactly on Jerry Hopper's code, but is split into neater functions and does two extra things: Starts a session and saves the user details to the session after login.

Create a `public` directory within `your-application`.

```shell
mkdir your-application/public
```

In the directory, make the file `your-application/public/login.php` and insert the following code.

<RemoteCode
  url={frontmatter.codeRoot + "/complete-application/public/login.php"}
  lang="php"/>

This setup code:
- Prevents errors from being displayed in the browser, for security.
- Loads all vendor modules into PHP so you can use them.
- Reads your variables from the `.env` file.
- Starts a new session using HTTP (not HTTPS since you're on localhost) and ensures your user Id cookie will not be accessible by JavaScript.

Next comes the FusionAuth handlers. Starting from the `getFusionAuthProvider()` function, the code:

> - Creates a Jerry Hopper provider with your environment variables.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Creates a FusionAuth provider with your environment variables.
```

### Security

* You may want to customize the [token expiration times and policies](/docs/v1/tech/oauth/#configure-application-oauth-settings) in FusionAuth.
* Choose [password rules](/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/tenants#password) and a [hashing algorithm](/docs/v1/tech/reference/password-hashes) that meet your security needs.

### Tenant And Application Management

* Model your application topology using [Applications](/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/applications), [Roles](/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/roles), [Groups](/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/groups), [Entities](/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/groups), and more.
* Set up [MFA](/docs/v1/tech/guides/multi-factor-authentication), [Social login](/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/), or [SAML](/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/samlv2/) integrations.
* Integrate with external systems using [Webhooks](/docs/v1/tech/events-webhooks/), [SCIM](/docs/v1/tech/core-concepts/scim), and [Lambdas](/docs/v1/tech/lambdas/).

### {frontmatter.technology} Authentication

- [The League OAuth overview](https://oauth2-client.thephpleague.com/usage/)
- [Jerry Hopper's FusionAuth provider](https://github.com/jerryhopper/oauth2-fusionauth)

## Troubleshooting

> 

Reviewer 3: Ran into same issue as I mentioned here: https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-site/pull/2577#pullrequestreview-1721442839

> In both the complete application and working through the quickstart, I sometimes get an error: Your browser sent a request that this server could not understand. Size of a request header field exceeds server limit.Opening it up in an incognito window solved it, so can you add that to the troubleshooting section?

Can you please add the same troubleshooting step.

Reviewer 2: I have added the troubleshooting step
